# My favorite number: -93.**************

At my day gig, my team recently inherited three code bases for a customer-facing food service application. 
The Android, iOS, and web applications had been implemented by three separate teams working for the same contractor and shared little in common with each other outside of the UI.
Backing them all is a large, crufty and complicated API that was in-part designed by this contractor, but has other consumers and purposes. 
Dealing with this API is quite tedious since it implements an error-prone and needlessly complex authentication and request-signing scheme.
Shortly after we took over, bug reports started slowly coming in from customers; and even one of my team-mates ran into an issue where he couldn't use the delivery feature with his address on Android.
However, he was able to order using the web app. This seemed like a simple enough problem, but neither of us was that familiar with the code, so we decided to investigate it together.

First, we try to reproduce the bug in the Android app with my coworker's address, and we quickly notice that an onClick handler is throwing an `IllegalArgumentException`, which causes the app to display an alert that prompts the user to try again.
Digging a little deeper, we see that the exception is thrown when an API response is null, meaning that it failed to parse the JSON response:

```java
// sample java here
```
In my opinion, this is a somewhat [surprising](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_astonishment) use of `IllegalArgumentException`, but I digress.

The specific request that's failing involves taking the user's order and delivery address, doing some validation and CRUD, and returning the validated response. 
The response model includes the delivery address again and the app parses the entire response in order to see if there are any issues with the order.

Curious to see what's happening, we turn on OkHttp's [logging interceptor](https://github.com/square/okhttp/tree/master/okhttp-logging-interceptor) and realize that the JSON response is mangled:

```json
{
   "deliveryAddress": {
      "latitude": "FOO",
      "longitude" -93.**************
   }
}
```

The payload includes the lat/lng, so we verify that it's being sent correctly. Naturally, since this now appears to be an API issue, I sign a request and send it off to the API. 
*I do this incorrectly.* Of course, I don't realize it at the time, so I'm surprised to see the request complete and return the correct, unmangled payload. 
I don't quite believe it, so I pull down the API and run it in a Windows VM. After a little finagling with it, I'm finally able to make a request from my Mac and 


Now, it again appears to be a client issue, so my coworker and I proceed to try a number of different approaches to ferret out the problem. 
First I switch to a different request library; the app was using OkHttp + Retrofit and had several custom interceptors configured in order to make requests to our overly-complicated API. 
At first glance, there doesn't appear to be anything suspicious in the interceptor code, but I decide to switch to Volley instead. When Volley returns the same response as OkHttp, I grow even more paranoid and decide to create a small Android app that just sends the request. 
Since I wasn't at all familiar with the Android code-base, my rationale was that perhaps there was something configured globally that was interferring with the response body and that I would be able to isolate it if I could make the request succeed with a significantly smaller and less complex app.

Unfortunately, my hopes are quickly dashed when the response body shows up corrupted in Android Studio's network monitor. Now I'm at my wit's end -- the only thing I haven't tried is connecting a local instance of the API to the app. 
There are a couple of obstacles though: the app must be running on an actual device^1 and the API only runs on Windows -- it can be exposed to my Mac over a bridge network but that won't be accessible to the app.
I decide to set-up a simple proxy using [`node-http-proxy`](https://github.com/nodejitsu/node-http-proxy):

```js
const httpProxy = require('http-proxy');

const port = process.env.PROXY_PORT || 8000;
const proxy = httpProxy.createProxyServer({target:'http://10.211.55.3:8080/'}); // the bridged network IP of my Windows VM
proxy.on('proxyReq', () => console.log('PROXYING'));
console.log(`Starting proxy server on port ${port}`);
proxy.listen(port);
``` 

Now I can take my minimal, bug-reproducing app and point it at a local instance of the API and have complete control over every dimension of this problem. The proxy server will bind to one my Mac's open ports and forward requests from my phone to the API.
After a couple of false starts, I'm finally able to use my physical Android phone to make the request to the API and I see the exact same latitude and longitude returned that I sent. Now I'm lost -- there's clearly something I'm not taking into account and it finally hits me: the WAF.
The API sits behind an enterprise web application firewall and its the only variable I haven't accounted for in my situation. 
Sure enough, my coworker does some googling and learns that it can be configured to do response scrubbing, replacing potentially sensitive information like social-security numbers or credit cards with a series of asterisks.
If you squint a little, the numbers after the decimal point in `-93.46170790000001` kind've look like a credit card number -- it even begins with a 4, like all Visa card numbers. It's 14 digits, not the typical 16 that a VISA card^2 has, but perhaps that's close enough.
 
But wait, if this is the case why isn't it happening on iOS or on the web? Why wasn't I able to reproduce it with my Node.js script or `curl`? 
Examining the web and iOS clients reveals that neither uses the same precision as Android, so that's presumably why they never ran into the issue. Whatever poorly-crafted regex the WAF is using at least takes into account the length of the number. 
As for why I couldn't reproduce it with Node.js the first time, I still haven't gotten to the bottom of that. I tweaked the Node.js script to use a different field and I was finally able to get the corrupted response, instead of just on Android. 
This proved repeatable with curl, so I piped the results to a file, scrubbed some sensitive information from it, and submitted a Jira ticket with the curl response to the network team. I'm still waiting to hear from them.
 
 
## footnotes 
1. responses on the simulator were flaky -- the address didn't always geocode the same on the simulator as it does on the device. 
Of course, it didn't matter in this case since I was sending a hard-coded payload, but I didn't want any other factors interferring with the result.
2. Apparently, a VISA card number can be [13, 16, or 19 digits long](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Payment_card_number#Issuer_idgentification_number_(IIN)). It's not hard to imagine a lazy regex capturing any string in that range.
